now we're hearing more and more these
days about facial and fingerprint
recognition the reliability of such
technologies has proven patchy but now
researchers at the Department of
Computer Science are hoping to change
all that yes I'm with the signal and
image processing group here in the
computer sciences department a beer is
going to tell us all about fingerprint
recognition how does this system work
well we can just show a very quick
demonstration mind we've got here a very
typical fingerprint scanner the first
stage of any any fingerprint matching
system is enrollment than this all this
will get your fingerprint on to the
template database social I enroll yeah
you'd like to do that so Africa buttons
okay we need to enter your name Powell
okay now if you want to hold your finger
down then you'll see the fingerprint
image come up on there and then when
we're done we've just click you'll put
it down again okay yeah we need more
than one impression this helps us make
the system more accurate you want to
take another impression thank you now
that yours your fingerprints are now in
the database and you know how to imagine
it you've come along to some sort of
access control system or during
immigration and we don't know who you
are and we'll ask you to put your
fingerprint fingerprint finger down on
the scanner again take a fingerprint and
we'll see whether we can identify you
without knowing who you are so this is
the matching stage okay same finger
there we go thank you now it's going
running through the database trying to
find the closest match there we go and
it's around it yep bout with a score of
65 what does that mean well that's it's
hard to interpret I mean it's sort of
like out of 100 but it's a it's a
confidence score really saying how how
close that is against the other prints
that it's found in the database and
anything about 50 s is very good now
this technology has lots of other
applications Lee Wang you work with a
beer on this yes absolutely i mean the
technology can be used on both pc based
system or this embedded system with this
system is doing the matching and
recognition completely independent of
any PC any computing any computing is
done on this device and how does it work
so what is very simple is a door entry
system you register yourself for example
our roadie register my index finger so
if I place my finger here when when your
way here to click and the sounds thank
you it means this present person is
recognized and this box will link to a
controller of the door the door will be
open
once that person now is recognized so
that can be used for attendance
management or access control and they
also open opens up the possibility to
use fingerprint in any portable device
such as pdas and mobile phones so what's
the advantage of biometric testing as
opposed to now there's a conventional
swipe card system right the conventional
swipe card is something you have you can
be lost it can be stolen it can be
borrowed so certainly jeopardizes what
the security will be jeopardized if you
lost if if you lost your card or a car
cash stolen for the pin number or
password is something you know and for
example the the application to financial
transactions people tends to have
multiple cards and but it tends to use
the same password so if you lost one
card that the whole security it
jeopardized whereas biometry is
something you are he can't it can't be
lost and can't be stolen generally so is
it provides more security compared to
the conventional technology you call
this the warp system why is that well
one of the big challenge of biometric
recognition system is the geometric
variation it happens in fingerprint
happens in face recognition the
geometric data can be distorted for
example fingerprint it depends on how
much pressure you apply them finger on
the on the scanner and depends on the
angle of your fingerprint opposed to the
scanner it can create a very complicated
distortion and those distortions
sometimes can make the recognition
system difficult to recognize or even
and make false rejection or false
acceptance so what we're trying to do is
come up with a mathematical model to
correct those distortion and to make a
geometric invariant ie every time you
present the same fingerprint or indeed
you're saying biometric data you always
generate a same
image regardless of the viewing angle or
the pressure you apply on on the
blueprint but perhaps even more so than
with fingerprint technology there is a
margin for error well we guess
especially with that face recognition
there's also a lot of variation between
images the same person these can be due
to much as facial expression changes or
hairstyle glasses but also there's
differences in the lighting and the
natural direction the image was taken
from so what's your challenge what
current systems expect a frontal image
neutral lighting a neutral expression
our approach is trying to overcome these
problems to make it more usable in their
natural environment such as images from
CCTV in those kind of situations so just
give us a very brief demonstration of
how it works well I can't show you the
face recognition but a brief
demonstration of detection which is one
of the initial stages we require yeah
and right well they're definitely
criminals yes well this project has just
started in the last few weeks the
funding last for another three years
that no doubt we'll be hearing more
about it on future editions of Warwick I
cast